Hi, welcome everyone. I'm just going to give people just maybe one minute just to finish
coming in. It's only boring in the beginning anyway, it's only me talking. So I always
forget to introduce myself whenever I do anything, including podcasts. So I'm Chris Bailey, I'm
a data scientist at the Strategy Unit. And we have with us here Ryan from Posit, who's
going to talk about Shiny in Production. I'll do another intro in a moment. I'm just going
to let people come in just for another 60 seconds or so. I'm going to mention a few
events we've got coming up. And then I'm going to hand over for the rest of the webinar.
Yeah, I'll just wait until, oh yeah, I was going to say I'll wait until two minutes pass,
but it is two minutes past. Okay, so welcome everyone. Just for the newcomers, just to
introduce myself, my name is Chris Bailey, I'm a data scientist at the Strategy Unit.
We have a webinar for you today. Just want to very quickly just give you some community
dates for your diary before we get started. So we do have another webinar next month.
We haven't yet confirmed the title and date, but do check on our website or on the Slack
for more details. We have a workshop coming up, the highly popular intro to R&R Studio
with the highly popular Simon Wellesley-Miller. He's a very experienced R coder, so I'm sure
he'll do a brilliant job. So go on the website for more details about that. We have a conference
coming up. So the actual dates are the 17th and 18th of October. That is the face-to-face
conference. For the first time this year, we have R and Python talks together on the
main stage, which is awesome. And we have various other events happening around it.
So we have some online workshops where you can learn how to do stuff. And we have some
conference talks as well on the dates that you can see. I think, yeah, Ryan's doing something
at the conference as well. I believe we're still in the process of organizing that. So,
yeah. So, Ryan, that's all from me. So I'm going to hand over to, so Ryan, as I mentioned,
he's from Posit. He's going to do Shiny in production. And I'm sure it'll be a very interesting
talk. So I'm going to stop talking there.
All right. Thanks, Chris. I'll go ahead and start sharing my screen. I'm just going to
dive right into it. All right. So like Chris mentioned, today's webinar is going to be
all about Shiny in production. And for this webinar, this is really kind of just a sit
back, take it all in, relax. We are recording today's session. So we can send that to anyone
who couldn't make it today. But all about Shiny in production. I recognize a lot of
the names on the call here. So it's good to see some familiar names. But for anyone
that's new, like Chris mentioned, my name is Ryan. I work here at Posit as a data science
advisor. And part of my role is just making sure that your team is familiar with all the
cool tools that Posit's creating and also some data science best practices, which is
going to be the focus for today. For any questions you have, we're probably going to take the
full hour with the content. So feel free to pop those questions into the chat. A lot of
times, some of your colleagues might be able to help address some of those questions. But
if we don't get to those questions, I'll be sure to copy those. And we'll try to follow
up in an email. I also like to keep these sessions pretty casual. I'd say if there's
any pressing questions, I'm totally OK if you just unmute yourself, scream into the
microphone, ask your questions. I want to have a nice, fun, casual, and safe learning
environment today. And I'll also share the slides for today so you can have that as a
reference. So what are we going to talk about today? Well, like I mentioned, this is all
about Shiny in production. So we're going to start talking about what does it actually
mean to productionalize a Shiny application. And then we'll spend the bulk of today talking
about various strategies for creating production-ready Shiny apps, so benchmarking, profiling, and
optimizing. And then once we're done, we have a little bit of time, we'll talk about how
to host production-quality Shiny apps on Posit Connect and what you can do with those applications
once they're on Connect in order to really make them shine. No pun intended. Also within
the slides here, and again, I'll share these with everybody afterwards, are some links
that I used to create today's presentation, which might be helpful if you're looking to
take your Shiny applications to the next level or design production-grade Shiny applications.
But really, the holy grail for creating production-ready Shiny applications is this book right here,
Mastering Shiny. It's a completely free online resource. And even though the title kind of
mentions that's Mastering Shiny, kind of assuming that you have some understanding
of Shiny, even if you've never used Shiny before or you're brand new to it, you'll still
get a lot of value out of this book because it does walk you through the basics of creating
your first Shiny application and then stepping through some more advanced topics.
All right, so to kick things off, let's just talk about what does it mean to have something
in production? I'm going to quote Joe Cheng, who's one of the creators of Shiny and also
our chief technology officer here at Posit. And way back in 2019 at our studio at the
time conference, he defined production as software environments that are used and relied
on by real users with real consequences if things go wrong. So that's just one definition
of what it means to have something in production. But there are various goals of a production
environment. We need to keep it up, keep it safe, keep it correct, and keep it snappy.
So in terms of keeping it up, we have to make sure we prevent any unplanned outages,
keeping it safe. We want to make sure that our data, the functionality, the code are
all kept safe, unauthorized access within your firewall, your network, keeping it correct.
Make sure it works as intended. Make sure that when you spin open the Shiny application,
it's the same app today, tomorrow, a week from now, a year from now, 10 years from now.
And then also making sure to keep it snappy, that it has fast response times, there's not
a lot of waiting from the end user. And that's really what we're going to focus on for today.
We could certainly talk about these other ones, but just for our hour we have today,
we're really going to focus on how to keep your Shiny applications snappy.
Now to help with my kind of presentation today, I'm going to make a fairly silly analogy,
but I think it hopefully helps kind of explain how to make production-ready Shiny applications.
And we're going to talk about the Shiny restaurant. So I really want you to put yourself in the
shoes of a manager or someone who owns a restaurant. And when it comes to a restaurant, obviously,
to create food, you need recipes. And a lot of these things in a restaurant, they actually
translate pretty well over to the R ecosystem. And so when it comes to a recipe, when you
think about R, this is essentially your Shiny application, the code itself. These are the
instructions used to create your Shiny app. Next in our restaurant, we have our chef.
The chef is going to be the one preparing the food. For our Shiny apps, that is going
to be the R session or process that's going to be reading this Shiny application to create
that Shiny app. Next, we have our kitchen. This is where your chef lives, where they
cook all the food. So this is going to be your computer, your server, anywhere you're
running R. And then finally, we have our end product, our food. And that is going to be
our rendered, our user interface, our Shiny application right here. So let's say we have
your grand opening of your Shiny restaurant. You've hired one chef, you have one kitchen,
and in walks your very first customer. They order some food, let's say a cheeseburger,
the chef cooks it, delivers it to the customer, and the customer is super happy. They leave
the restaurant, and they spread the good word, they scream on the streets that your Shiny
restaurant is the best restaurant in town. So a few hours later, you get some more customers.
So now you have about six or seven customers, and things are still going great. Your single
chef can take in all these orders, prepare the food on the single kitchen, and everybody's
happy. All right, all these customers leave, they start writing Google reviews, Yelp reviews.
And now your restaurant's starting to get a little bit more popular. Let's say on the
second day, now we have like 10, 15 people in your restaurant at the exact same time.
And your chef's starting to feel a little pressure, getting a little stressed out, but
they can still accommodate all the requests, all the orders from your customers. So things
are great. More and more, the word spreads how great your Shiny restaurant is. The third
day you're open, you get a line out the door around the block, everyone's pouring into
your restaurant. And now you have like 20, 30 people in your restaurant at the exact
same time. And at this point, your chef is like, oh, I am way overworked. I'm in over
my head, kitchen's on fire. And this is going to result in some of your customers having
a bad experience. So as a manager or the owner of the Shiny restaurant, we need to take a
step back and ask, what is the breaking point of our restaurant? So how many customers can
visit our restaurant before things start to break down? And if we translate that over
to our Shiny application, the question becomes how many users can visit our Shiny application
before things start to break? And this process of kind of figuring out that threshold is
known as benchmarking. Now for Shiny applications, some of you may have heard of this tool, but
we've created a tool here at Posit called Shiny load test, which does exactly that.
It tries to figure out how many people can visit your application at the exact same time
before things really start to break down. So I'm going to very quickly just run through
how you would run a Shiny load test. And in step one, you simply just have to run your
application. This can be running on your local computer, or you can have it running in like
Posit Connect or shinyapps.io. And once it's running, we're going to use Shiny load test
to record your session. So you have it running, you record your session, and then you just
interact with your application. You click buttons, you slide the bars, you generate
plots. And once you're done, that creates a recording log file. We then use in this
third step, a second tool called Shiny Cannon. This is actually a command line interface
tool that we've created. We feed in that recording log from step two, and then we can essentially
simulate synthetic users to our application. So in this command, we're going to generate
four synthetic users or simulated users, and they're going to interact with our application
for about two minutes. And then once we run that command, we can essentially analyze the
results. Now there's a lot of different output from Shiny load test, but this is probably
the most common output you'll see. So here we have this plot, it's a ggplot. On the y
axis, we're looking at the number of simulated users. So we have our four users. And on the
x axis, we're looking at time. In this case, it's going to be 600 seconds. And on this
gray background, you're going to see all these various colored blocks in each row. These
colored blocks represent time that the Shiny applications is essentially thinking. It's
frozen in time, it's doing some type of compute step. And essentially, the user has to wait
for the Shiny application to become responsive. So really, the goal of Shiny load test and
with these plots is to see kind of, you want more of that gray background to show through
and you want these colored blocks to be as thin as possible. Because that's going to
indicate that application is relatively snappy. Someone clicks on a button, and the application
does a step and is then ready for more input. And just to give you a sense of what a very
bad application would look like. Here we have a plot where we're actually simulating 16
concurrent users against 600 or so seconds. And here you can see that the colored blocks
encompass the entire plot, we're not seeing any of the gray background showing through.
So this is essentially an application that can't really handle 16 concurrent users. And
so at this point, you know, you can start to get an idea of what that threshold is, we
can see 16 is too much, we might want to backtrack it to figure out what is our kind of
maximum number of concurrent users. So that's Shiny load tests. And again, really important
for benchmarking. So let's go back to our Shiny restaurant. And let's say we've done
the benchmarking. So we've determined that, yeah, we can have like five, six, seven or
so customers in our restaurant. And our chef's going to be happy, our kitchen is going to
be happy, this is a good spot. But by benchmarking, we've determined that 20 or so is
too much. All right, this is at this point is when the chef gets overworked, the kitchen
bursts into flames. And so that's too much. So we find that sweet spot. But then we start
asking some questions like, you know, well, how can I then support 20 customers into my
restaurant? You know, 20 is a no, I want more customers, I want to be able to support more
and more people and make more money. So how do we accommodate 20 customers? Well, we have
a few options. We could again, as a manager, we can think about maybe adding more kitchens
to our restaurant. Alright, so we can have three kitchens here and just a single chef.
And essentially, they can multitask, right, so they can have multiple meals being prepared
at the same time. Maybe we hire more chefs. Alright, so now we have three chefs in our
kitchen, all sharing the same kitchen, which is probably fine, you can multitask a bit
more here. Maybe we do both, maybe we hire more chefs, we build more kitchens. And yeah,
this is absolutely going to be able to accommodate more customers. But it's worth noting that
for these two options, it's going to cost money, you know, to hire more chefs and to
build more kitchens. And so for our Shiny application, that's essentially having more
R processes, or more servers, more nodes, more computers supporting this application.
And that costs, you know, not only money, but compute resources as well. So for today's
webinar, I really want to focus on, you know, looking at our chef and asking the question,
like, can we actually just improve the performance of our single chef? And how would we do
that? So again, you're the manager. So what you do is you take a chair and you plop it in
the kitchen, and you just sit there and you watch your chef. And you have a stopwatch in
your hand. And as they go through the various steps of preparing a meal, you just clock how
much time each step took a little bit of micromanaging, but bear with me here in this
analogy. So an order comes in, your chef collects the ingredients, then prepares those
ingredients, cooks up the meal, assembles it, and then serves that finished product. And
again, as you go through each step, you determine how much time each step took. Some
steps go very quickly, some take a little bit longer. So kind of cooking the ingredients,
that's our rate limiting step here. So this process of essentially figuring out every
single step of your cooking process and how long each step takes, this is known as
profiling. And we can do this with our Shiny application as well. And before we actually
talk about profiling, there's two rules here for profiling your Shiny application. And the
number one rule is don't guess. Again, referencing Joe Cheng, our chief technology
officer, even though you built a Shiny application, and you may know exactly what is
the slow step, you still don't have to guess because there are tools out there that will
tell you exactly what is slow in your application. So some people might just say, Oh, I
can know just using my intuition, I can think that this is probably the slow part of my
Shiny app that I need to fix. But Joe Cheng says, you know, your intuition stinks, I don't
even know you, but it stinks. And essentially, what Joe is jokingly saying is that you don't
have to guess, you don't have to use your intuition, we have tools that will tell you
what parts of your Shiny application are slow. So the number one, number two rule is to use
a profiler. And probably the most common profiler for Shiny applications is a tool
called ProfViz. So here in this GIF, I have a Shiny application that I'm opening up, and
I'm just interacting with it as normally. But behind the scenes, I'm running this ProfViz
tool. And so once I'm done interacting with it, it generates this report where we can
see every single step in that Shiny application, how long each step takes and how much
memory is being allocated or deallocated. Just to simplify things, here is another ProfViz
report. I'm not looking at a Shiny application, I'm just looking at a function, or actually
four different functions. So same rules apply. In this ProfViz report, we have four
functions starting here on line four to line seven, we're calculating the means using four
different functions, we have apply, call means, lapply, and vapply. And what ProfViz does,
it'll tell you exactly how long each function takes to run, you can see that right here. And
you can also see how much memory is being allocated or deallocated along the way. So this
is interesting, because even though these four functions do the exact same thing, just
calculating the column means, you can see the vapply function is actually 10 times faster
than the apply function, and utilizes hardly any memory because it's a vectorized
operation. Alright, so now that we've profiled our Shiny application, right, and then going
back to our restaurant, you start thinking of some ways of how we can improve our chefs
kind of operations. So maybe we have the chef prepare the ingredients in advance, or maybe
someone else in the kitchen can prepare those ingredients in advance. That way, not to spend
the time preparing them as orders come in. Maybe we just keep the kitchen organized and
updated, making sure the chef knows exactly where all the tools are, and making sure they
have the best tools for the job. Prepare the most popular meals in advance. And I'll talk
about this one here in a little bit. And then also multitasking, like training your chef to
prepare two, maybe three meals at the exact same time. So we're going to go through each
one of those steps, we're going to talk about it in the context of our Shiny restaurant, and
then how that translates over to our Shiny application. And we're going to start with
preparing ingredients in advance. So again, let's say your chef, they get an order for a ham
and cheese sandwich. And when that order comes in, if this is their starting material, this
raw material, they're gonna have to spend some time cutting tomatoes, slicing the bread, slicing
the ham, and that's going to take time. And what would be much faster is if this was their
starting material, all the ingredients were prepared in advance, they can simply grab each
component, assemble the sandwich super quick, and then deliver it to the end user or the
customer. So for Shiny apps, this essentially means preparing your data in advance. And 99% of
all times when you have slow Shiny applications is likely because the data is too large. And
you know, sometimes that's going to be kind of unavoidable. But other times we can prepare
that data in advance, so that only the data that's needed for that Shiny application is
processed. So a few different things to consider. Make sure when you're reading a data to your
Shiny application that you read and process that data only once. You want to try to not get into a
situation where every single time someone slides a bar in your Shiny application, it re-reads in
the data, and then re-reads in the data over and over and over again. You should also think
about, especially large data sets, having that stored somewhere else and not within your Shiny
application itself. So maybe have it stored in a database. Or maybe move any data processing
steps. So if you have to like transform your data or even model your data, you can actually try to
move this outside of your Shiny app. You can have it within a pin. And so if you've never heard of
pins before, it's a way to take data and store it either at like a S3 bucket, Bitbucket,
PositConnect can also store pins. Or you can take some of that data processing and you can put it
into an R Markdown document and schedule that to run on PositConnect. Or you can serve it as a
Plumber API. These are all great options. Really the take home here, Shiny is a visualization tool.
It was never quite designed to be a huge compute workhorse. And so anytime you can take these
data transformation steps and move it outside of the Shiny application, the better.
All right, so going back to our Shiny restaurant, another way that we can improve operations is to
keep our kitchen organized and updated. So I've had to ask everyone here on the line, which kitchen
would you prefer to work in? Would you rather one on the left where everything's nice and organized?
Or do you prefer the one on the right where it's just a little bit more cluttered and disheveled,
and you may not know where everything is? Now I'm going to guess you'll probably say one on the left.
And let's say our chef, they said, hey, I need a new knife, a new kitchen knife to prepare the meal.
As a manager, it would be a very poor decision to provide them with a very rusty, old, dull knife,
or even worse, provide them with a medieval sword, which is not the right tool for the job.
And essentially, we want to provide them with a very sharp, clean kitchen knife so they can do their job correctly.
So when it comes to our Shiny application, this means optimizing and organizing your code and functions.
And there's a lot of different ways you can do that, and I'm just going to talk about a few.
You always want to make sure that you're using the fastest functions,
and you may be asking yourself, like, how do I figure that out? Like, well, Profiz is one way.
You can kind of take a bunch of functions and compare them to the other,
but just some other tools, including the very fantastic Bench package,
which has a mark function, so you can benchmark various functions. We'll see that here in a second.
You also want to make sure you call code in the correct spot, and I've alluded to this briefly
about making sure that data is not being re-read in every single time someone interacts with your Shiny app.
Avoid copying your code. So this is just a way to keep your Shiny applications organized,
so putting code into functions, for example.
And R is great for vectorized operations, so any time you can vectorize anything,
that's certainly going to be the way to go. And then, if you haven't heard of Shiny modules,
it's a great way to just organize your Shiny applications to separate modules,
which can make troubleshooting and, again, just kind of consuming your applications significantly easier.
So let's talk about a few of these steps, and we'll start right here with using your fastest functions.
So in this slide, at the very top, we're seeing two functions, all right? Function, this first one,
is simply just wrapping up the mean function. So we're finding the mean of a vector x,
and we're going to call this function mean1. In the second function, we're going to call mean2,
does the exact same thing, but we spell out mean, so we take the sum of x divided by the length of x.
These will do the exact same thing, just two sliders apart. So we're going to call this function mean1.
These will do the exact same thing, just two slightly different ways.
And then down here, we're going to run the bench, the mark function, so benchmark,
and we're basically going to compete mean1 versus mean2 and see which one's faster.
You can get a lot of different output from this bench package and the mark function,
including how the kind of the average minimum time, median time, and iterations per second.
And it's pretty surprising, you can see that mean2 actually outperforms just the mean function.
Now, I'm certainly not saying to go back into all your code and swap out mean for
sum divided by length, because mean is a little bit easier to read, it's a little bit more concise.
And, you know, just a couple of hundred microseconds, maybe that doesn't make that
much of a difference. But, you know, there's certainly ways where you could think about,
you know, maybe taking one function and competing it against another to see which
one might be faster, especially if you use it multiple times in your Shiny application.
Now, you also want to make sure you're calling code in the correct spot. So let me go through
a quick example of where this might kind of show us heading into your Shiny applications.
Here we have a function I'm going to create called myDataPrep. And it's just a made up
function where the first thing it does is it reads in a CSV file, so some data,
and then it takes that data, it filters it for some non important variables,
it groups it by some other variables, and does some other slow functions.
Now, what you don't want to do, and what I've alluded to before is have this function like
this that reads in data somewhere in like a reactive function in your Shiny app,
because essentially, anytime someone interacts with your app, and it calls this reactive function,
it's going to reread in that data over and over and over again, which is just not necessary.
So what we really want to do is take this myDataPrep function and move it outside of
those reactive steps outside of your server, so that essentially, it's called once and only once.
And then we have Shiny modules. Now, Shiny modules, some of you may use them today.
But if you have any applications that are really starting to grow in complexity,
it's becoming harder to manage to keep track of, you should really think about
organizing your Shiny application and what's known as Shiny modules.
So I'm not going to go into full depth of how to actually create Shiny modules,
we have some great documentation on our Shiny website.
But just to explain kind of conceptually what they are, let's say on the left hand side,
this is your Shiny application, and each of these box corresponds to a different step.
And you can see here just reading through it's a bunch of different steps,
not an overly complex Shiny application. But you can see very quickly that certain
steps are having impacts and interacting with other steps, arrows are starting to cross over
each other, and it's starting to get a little bit complex, which then becomes harder to troubleshoot.
And so what you can do is you can essentially break up the Shiny application into separate modules.
So here we have a session module, an HPC module, data module, and a results module.
And these are independent modules, and you can troubleshoot just a single module.
And what's also really nice is you can take, for example, this data module,
and you can incorporate it into a separate application.
So they're portable between applications as well.
All right, let's go back to our restaurant and talk about another way that we can hopefully
improve performance. And that is to prepare the most popular meals in advance.
So I think the best way to think about this, let's say your Shiny restaurant is actually a pizzeria.
And let's say if 10 people walk into your restaurant,
nine of them are going to order your world-famous margarita pizza.
So because of that, you start to think, well, okay, maybe I can start preparing a bunch of
margarita pizzas in advance when I first open up my doors. And that way, when people enter the
front door, I can just quickly deliver that already prepared margarita pizza.
So essentially, you can have all these margarita pizzas in this hotbox,
ready to be delivered instantaneously. So for Shiny applications, this essentially means
caching your outputs. And some of you may be familiar with this, but what is caching your
outputs? What Shiny will do is it'll store that combination of your input and outputs,
so kind of the output of these render and reactive functions. And if the application,
if it sees that input, it'll generate the resulting output only once, and then it will
store that output in a cache. And if those inputs are seen again, it can simply retrieve that value
or that plot from the cache instead of having to recompute it over again.
Let me show you kind of conceptually how this works. So here we have a render plot function.
So I'm generating a plot here of the state of Maryland, which is where I live here in the
United States. And to generate this plot, it just takes a single input right up here, where I input
the state Maryland. So let's say this takes about four seconds to compute. Not super slow, but you
know, still four seconds, the user is going to have to wait. So what I can do instead is I can
take this render plot function and I can pipe it into the bind cache function. It's going to take
that single state input. That way, when I go to indirect to this application, I select Maryland,
it generates this plot once, which takes four seconds, and then it caches that plot. And then
if another user or my future self comes back to this application and selects Maryland, rather than
having to regenerate the plot, it can just grab the plot from the cache and deliver it in a fraction
of the time. All right, and now we have multitasking, which is going to be our last step we'll talk
about. So it'd be really nice if your chef at the exact same time could have a turkey going in the
oven, maybe some pasta sauce on top of the and on the range here, right next to some stir fry,
all going at the same time preparing three different meals simultaneously. So what does
that mean for Shiny apps? Well, it means using something called asynchronous programming, which
sounds pretty complex. But the reason why we have to do this async programming is because R is
inherently a single threaded programming language, meaning that it's kind of hard to do two operations
at the exact same time. So to implement this async programming, we have to use the help of
some packages, specifically promises and the futures package. There's also another way you
can do this by essentially offloading any of these steps to something like an API, which can be running
on a separate R session outside of your Shiny application. This is optional, but it's always
good practice again to move any of those data processing or compute steps outside of your Shiny
app. All right, so let's talk about how to actually leverage async programming specifically
as promises package. And we're just going to use this example Shiny application I have here,
which I'm going to call analyze data app. This application does two things, it takes in some
inputs, and you can either plot the data, which goes very fast, it only takes about a second to
plot that data. Or you can run a model on that data, which takes a little bit more time to run
about 60 seconds. And again, let's say this app is using a single R session or an R process.
Some of these users, they log in, we have four users here, and the only thing they want to do
is plot some data. And they're happy because this step is very fast, they click plot data,
and within a second, that plot is returned to them. Similarly, maybe you have, maybe you have a
Shiny application that, you know, a user comes in, and they want to run the model. And so this
takes about a minute. And the user knows that they know it's going to take some time. So they click
run model, they go grab some coffee. And when they come back, the models trained and ready to be
interacted with. But here we can get into an issue where let's say you have a user come in,
and they want to run a model. So they click model. And then right afterwards, you want to have these
users come in and plot some data. But now they essentially have to wait for this model to
complete before they can plot the data. So something that used to take less than a second
can now take, you know, over 60 seconds. And this is going to result in these users being very
confused of why is it going so slow, and they're not going to be happy. So instead, we can implement
something known as promises in this async programming. And we essentially make our slow
running steps a promise. So we tell this user that wants to run a model that, hey, your model,
it's going to take some time, and it will eventually complete, I promise you, it will complete.
But what this allows you to do is to also serve those fast running steps instantaneously.
So user comes in, they run the model. And if these users log in, essentially, the model pauses,
it serves these users, because the steps are very fast, one second, and once they're done,
it can come back to the model and finish that step.
All right, so we talked about a bunch of different ways to how to improve your Shiny application and
make them slightly more production ready. Let's just review some of those steps. And here I'm
just going to use this example Shiny application where we have the UI here in these red steps,
server in the yellow, and then we have some attached data to the Shiny application.
The first thing we talked about was preparing your data in advance. You can see right here in
our server function, we have a step to clean the data. Well, if you don't need to have this in your
Shiny application, you can certainly remove it, put it inside of an R Markdown or a Corrido document,
scheduled to run elsewhere, have it in a pin. And then also, again, anywhere and anytime you can
have your Shiny application not necessarily be bundled with the data itself and have that data
stored elsewhere, either in a database or a pin or a plumber API, that is certainly going to be our
best practice. Next, we talked about how to optimize and organize your code and your functions.
So one thing we, in this silly application, we're using this read.csv function, which is
a great function for reading in CSV files, but it's not necessarily the fastest one. And there's
other functions out there that can be used, including this fread function. And then we can
also think about taking some of these steps and moving it outside of any reactive functions. So
again, you're not rereading in the same data step over and over and over again.
Then we talked about caching your output. So that pizzeria example.
So if you have any outputs of your Shiny application, like the render outputs,
and those outputs kind of are dependent on a certain combination of inputs,
it can essentially generate those. It can see those inputs, generate the output, and then
store that output. So if it ever sees that combination of inputs ever again,
then it can simply retrieve it from the cache rather than having to compute it all over again.
And then finally, we talked about async programming. For our Shiny application here,
we have two steps. It creates a model. It also renders the plot. But the modeling step,
this takes a long time. With the rendering a plot, that goes really fast. So essentially,
what we can do is we can promise the user that the slow running steps will eventually finish,
but it will allow the fast jobs to complete first.
All right, so those are just a few of the steps for creating more production-ready Shiny
applications. It's certainly not an exhaustive list. And again, that Mastering Shiny book I
mentioned before, it will also be a great resource for creating more production-ready Shiny apps.
But there's just one more thing I want to talk about, one more tool to really host
production-ready Shiny applications. And before we talk about it, which is Posit Connect,
let's go back to our Shiny restaurant analogy. And again, for the most part, we've been talking
about you being the manager or the owner of your Shiny restaurant. And as the owner,
you have some important decisions to make, such as how many chefs are you going to hire,
and how many customers can come into your restaurant and still be like a performant
restaurant, make sure all the customers are happy. So to help with these important decisions
as it pertains to your Shiny application, your manager essentially can be Posit Connect.
And if you're not familiar with Posit Connect, this is our professional publishing platform
where you can take your Shiny applications, publish them to Connect, and then share them
easily with whoever needs to see them. And Posit Connect can host a lot of other things besides
just Shiny. So it can do Shiny for R, Shiny for Python, Markdown, pins, plumbers, some of the
things we talked about today, as well as a lot of other content in the Python ecosystem.
So let's talk about how Posit Connect can help host and serve production-ready Shiny apps.
So going back to our Shiny restaurant, again, you are the manager and you determine that you're
going to hire one chef. And this chef is going to manage 10 customers, maximum. They can have
up to 10 customers they can manage. If they have 11, things are going to start to break down.
So in this configuration, when we think about Shiny, this essentially means we can have
one R process and we can have up to 10 concurrent users. Now, once a Shiny application is hosted
on Posit Connect, you as a publisher have access to these runtime settings. And there's going to
be three settings we're going to talk about today, max processes, min processes, and max
connections per process. So in this configuration, we have one R process, which is set right here.
We can have up to one chef or one R process supporting this application. And we can have
up to 10 customers. But in the Shiny world, we call those connections to your Shiny app.
So max connections per process, 10, one chef, one R process. This may be perfectly fine for
what you need for your Shiny application, but maybe you need to tweak things. So let's say to
maybe improve the performance of your Shiny applications, you determine you're going to
hire another chef for your kitchen. So now we have two chefs and we essentially split the load.
Chef one can have five customers, chef two can have five customers. So that essentially means
each R process can have up to five concurrent users. So we can tweak those runtime settings to
meet these needs. So we can have up to two R processes, and we can have up to max five max
connections per process. And two times five is still equal to 10. So we can still only have
10 concurrent users for our Shiny application. But again, we can always tweak that.
Now there's one additional setting here I haven't yet mentioned called min processes.
So let me kind of explain what this means in context of our Shiny restaurant.
Let's say your restaurant is 24 seven, it's open up every single hour of the day. But you know,
you probably imagine one o'clock in the morning, two o'clock in the morning, there's probably not
going to be too many customers. But what you don't want to have happen is someone walk in at 2am,
and they order a cheeseburger. And the chef essentially has to turn on the burners again,
thaw out the ingredients, you know, cook the burger and then deliver to the customer,
which takes a long time, will be much better is if those, you know, all the equipment was turned
on and ready to go all the ingredients were already prepared. And the chef can essentially
cook the burger very quickly and deliver it to that customer, even in the wee hours of the morning.
So essentially, we want to have the kitchen always on, we want to have the chef always
ready to prepare that food. And we can do that by setting min processes to one.
And that essentially means that one of these are processes never goes to sleep. So the shiny
application is always running 24 seven. This is a great way to configure your shiny applications on
posit connect. If your shiny app has a long startup process, right, so maybe when you kick
on a shiny application has to read has to read in a bunch of data, maybe has to train a model
before you can even interact with a shiny app. So if that's the context of your shiny application,
then you might want to have it always on. So that startup process is completed once and only once.
And then just one more configuration. Let's say your shiny restaurant is a VIP five star
restaurant. And you determine that you want to have for every single customer that comes into
your diner restaurant, they have a dedicated chef, right? So one customer one chef. So in
this configuration, we can have up to 10, our processes are 10 chefs. And we're only going to
have one connection per process. This is truly the VIP experience, everyone has their own dedicated
our process. But it's just worth noting that the more our processes you have, that's the more
compute power needed on your connect instance. So if your server can handle it, this is certainly
going to, you know, ensure that the shiny application is as performant as possible.
Alright, so that's pretty much all I wanted to talk about today. I definitely wanted to leave
some time for questions here. But just to recap what we talked about and how to improve your
shiny app performance to make it snappy, make it more production grade. We talked about benchmarking
and profiling your shiny app. And then we talked about all the ways you can optimize
preparing your data in advance at async programming, caching, and also just quality
checking your code. And then again, if you have positive connect, it's a great way to tweak those
runtime settings to make sure that you know, depending on your applications needs, you can
always allocate more our processes and kind of dictate how many connections per process.
Alright, so with that, I think we have about 15 or so minutes, and I'd be happy to take any
questions. Feel free to pop it into the chat or you can just simply come off mute.
Gotcha. And I'll try my absolute best to try to answer these questions,
but I may also need to tweak our shiny team. Let's take a look here.
All right, can you catch all potential options or the cash only created when a user starts using
the app? So caching, it's, it's something that needs to be thought about as you're designing
your shiny application. If your shiny app has like a set number of outputs or combination of outputs,
maybe that's like 10 different different plots that can potentially generate. And maybe those
plots take a little bit of time to compute. If it's only 10 options, that's going to be like a
great option for caching, because there's not going to be anything else. But if your application
has an infinite number of combinations of a plot that it can generate, that may not lend itself
well to caching because as it catches going to grow in size, it's going to be more kind of
memory and CPU. It's going to essentially be consumed for caching all those outputs.
So I wouldn't necessarily say caching all outputs is a great option, but
thinking about which ones have a finite number of potential combinations will certainly lend
itself well to caching. All right, Rodrigo, here we go. Why call benchmarking and not
load testing when you're measuring how many users can access your application?
Load testing.
Rodrigo, do you mind kind of explain that question a little bit? I think I know what
you're referring to, but I just want to make sure I... No, it's just a terminology question. Like,
usually I understand benchmarking when you're comparing two things. But in this case,
we're just measuring the performance of one thing. So I just didn't get why it's called benchmarking
and not load testing. Well, yeah, I think in this context, I may have been jumping the
terminology a little bit, but load testing, benchmarking would essentially be the same
thing in this context. Thanks. That's a good question.
Any more questions? I've got a question. Chris, your audio is coming through really quietly.
Sorry, I moved my microphone because I was eating before.
Yeah, just while people are thinking of questions, I've got a question. So I know
on the Posit Connect, I can't remember what it's called now. There's a little slider where you can
choose how it manages. What's it called? Is it called load factor or something?
Yeah, yeah. Let me bring up a Shiny application here and I can see what you mean here. We
actually changed the way that it looks, but yeah, we do have a load factor.
So let me just get this quick and then I'll share my screen.
All right. So this application, it's booting up, but here I'm showing that same runtime settings.
It looks a little bit different just because we've updated the interface with Posit Connect,
but essentially those settings we were talking about are right here. So we have min processes,
max processes, max connections per process. And as Chris mentioned, we also have something called
load factor. Chris, are you just asking about how does this load factor work or?
Well, I just thought, I think it's a really interesting idea and I sort of get it,
but I just thought, I wonder how, if you could, my basic question is, how much thinking will it
do for you? Do we need to actually not really worry about the other settings? Is it good
enough to kind of really get it right every time or is it, you know, a kind of halfway house?
Yeah, I think it's, we want to make sure we give as much power to the publisher as possible to
really tweak these settings and not have Connect like, you know, think it knows what it's doing
for you. So a lot of times this is going to be kind of configured for you, or sorry,
you're going to configure it and you can kind of gauge the performance and make any tweaks.
But just to explain what is going on with this load factor, and this application is not booting
up, it probably worked at some point, but we can still talk about this. Essentially,
if we go through an example here, let's say we have three max processes and we can have up to
20 connections per process. So we can have 60 concurrent users to this application.
So the question becomes, you know, if I share this application with one person, you know,
obviously that's probably going to boot up one hour process because we can have up to three.
So we just have one. If I share it with a second person, do they then share that process or does
it boot up that second, you know, R process? At what point do we kind of make that threshold to
open up a new R process? Currently it's set to 0.5. And that means that once this number,
once an R process gets to about 10 or so concurrent users, it's then going to switch over
to a second process. So that's kind of that load factor. Once you hit halfway here, it then spins
open that other process, but you can change that. So you can make it, if I set this to one,
for example, that essentially means that as soon as that second person logs in, it's going to spin
open that second process. The third person, the third process. I might actually have that
backwards. It's either zero or one, but you can kind of configure it so that, you know, when that
second person consumes your application, does it immediately open up that second process or do we
wait to max out that first process before switching over to the second one? So again,
these are all configurable by the publisher. And it's worth noting that before Kinect existed,
we had another tool called Shiny Server Pro. All of these settings used to have to be configured
kind of using a config file on the server itself, required a lot more kind of Linux expertise. So
we wanted to make sure we give as much of that power to the publisher within the Kinect user
interface right here. And there's even a few more down here, timeout settings, like, you know,
how long is this application going to be running before, if no one's interacting with it, will
eventually shut down. You can configure all of these right down here as well. So you have a lot
of control over the performance of the Shiny app. Yeah, I must say, I used Shiny Pro back in the day,
actually. And it was great at the time because it allowed us to do something new, but it was very
hard. It was hacking away at a config file, which was not, which meant I was the only person that
could do anything with it. Basically, no one else, no one else knew what to do. Yeah, exactly.
Cool, thanks. So there's a couple more questions in the chat.
There's always available on Posit Kinect cost money. Yeah, let me, I should probably stop
sharing my screen. Let me open up another Shiny application. And let me just bring up one that
actually works here. All right, so let me reshare here. And I'm actually going to bring up a Shiny
for Python application. But essentially, it'll be the exact same thing once it's hosted on Kinect.
So let me bring up the chat. Okay, and I saw another question about
pins and plumber, which I can also talk about here in a second. But to talk about Beverly's
question first, is always available on Posit Kinect cost money. So I'm not entirely sure I
fully understand this question. But maybe what I can do is talk about kind of how Kinect works
from a licensing perspective, and also just like, you know how to leverage it. So here I have a
Shiny application. Again, this one was written in Python. But once it's hosted on Kinect essentially
has the same exact behavior. And as a publisher, I have control over who has access to it.
Now, all that access control is right here. And you can see for these three options, the first
one I have selected right here, specific users or groups, I have very tight control over who has
access to this application. Currently, I'm the only one, that's me. But if I wanted to share
with say, Lauren, who many of you know, then Lauren and I would be the only two that can view this
content. So in this configuration, Lauren and I are both what's considered named users of Posit
Kinect. And so we would essentially need a named user license for Kinect. There's also all users
login required. Same exact thing. But essentially, if you can log into Kinect, which is going to be
tied into whatever authentication you're using, if you can log in, you can view this content.
This is our demo environment here at Posit. So that essentially means all Posit employees can
view this content, but no one outside of Posit. And anyone that has access to login to Kinect,
they are also named users. Then we have this anyone no login required. Now, what I can do
is I can save this configuration. I can save it. I can grab the URL down here, which you can
customize. I'm going to paste it into the chat, and I'm going to share it with everyone here on the line.
And so you can click that link, and now you can interact with the Shiny application.
And what's nice is that you don't need to have a license for this instance of Kinect. You can
just view this content like you would any other website. But this application is essentially
opened up to the world. So there's no cost to do this for sharing to people we consider anonymous
users. I mean, you still need to have the Kinect instance, which does, you know, Kinect does cost
money to have. But if you want to share with anonymous users, you don't have to worry about
them having a certain Kinect license. Now, hopefully I answered your question, but I may
have been completely off as well. So feel free to, if I missed anything, just add that in the chat.
But let me talk to Jason's question quick. And I think, Jason, actually to help address your
question, what might actually be a little bit better is to show you an actual workflow of
how you can do this. And we have on our, let me see if I can bring it up quick, by predict,
yeah, our solutions page. So on our solutions page, which I'm showing here, and I'll go ahead
and copy this into the chat, we have a few built out end-to-end workflows that you can explore.
And this one is my favorite one. This is called the byte prediction workflow.
Everything you see in this blue box is hosted on PositKinect or RStudio Kinect right here.
And this workflow does a bunch of different things. It starts with some ETL and model training done
using Quarto and R Markdown. It then takes the output, the output data, the output model,
and saves it as a pin. So you can actually see how pins work. And then it'll take this one pin,
this model, and serve it as a plumber API, which can then feed into a Shiny application.
So what's nice about this Shiny app right here is that it's not doing any manual modeling. It's not
doing any manual reading into data. All it's doing is pinging an API or it's pinging a pin.
That's it. And so if you want to see these very steps in action and how to design these,
all the code, everything is shown right down here at the bottom. So you can explore it for yourselves.
So really, you know, pins and plumber, it's a way to build out workflows. But as I mentioned before,
Shiny is a visualization tool. That's what it was designed to do. So anywhere you can take those
compute steps and move it outside of Shiny, either as a plumber API or take any of the data,
move it outside of Shiny and store it as a pin, for example, that will certainly kind of lead to
more robust workflows and more production-grade Shiny applications. I should also mention that
every month we host these end-to-end data science workflows. It's the last Wednesday of every month.
And the one we're going to do this month, so actually a week from today,
we're going to show you how to leverage FastAPI, which can then feed into a Shiny application,
for example. So if you want to see that, tune in at 11 a.m. Eastern time. So it'll probably be like
two or three o'clock in the afternoon for most folks here on the line.
Okay, cool. Yeah. Chris is also kind of doing a similar thing. So that's awesome.
Cool. We've got five minutes. Any more questions for Ryan before we end for today?
Maybe we could almost have a whole webinar about plumber, I think.
We absolutely could.
All righty, cool. Well, again, I'll share the slides here in a little bit,
but I really appreciate you all tuning in. Hopefully it was helpful,
and certainly look forward to our next training.
Yep. Thanks a lot. Good to see everyone here. Thanks again to Ryan. Very interesting subject
that's close to my heart, as some people will know. So yes, we'll see you all next time.
All right. Thanks, all.
Thanks. Cheers.